README.md, before:

ruby-mqtt
=========

Pure Ruby gem that implements the [MQTT] protocol, a lightweight protocol for publish/subscribe messaging.

Also includes a class for parsing and generating [MQTT-SN] packets.


Table of Contents
-----------------
* [Installation](#installation)
* [Quick Start](#quick-start)
* [Library Overview](#library-overview)
* [Resources](#resources)
* [License](#license)
* [Contact](#contact)


Installation
------------

You may get the latest stable version from [Rubygems]:

    $ gem install mqtt-ccutrer

Quick Start
-----------

~~~ ruby
require 'mqtt'

# Publish example
MQTT::Client.connect('test.mosquitto.org') do |c|
  c.publish('test', 'message')
end

# Subscribe example
MQTT::Client.connect('test.mosquitto.org') do |c|
  # If you pass a block to the get method, then it will loop
  c.subscribe('test')
  c.get do |packet|
    puts "#{packet.topic}: #{packet.payload}"
  end
end
~~~


Library Overview
----------------

### Connecting ###

A new client connection can be created by passing either a [MQTT URI], a host and port or by passing a hash of attributes.

~~~ ruby
client = MQTT::Client.connect('mqtt://myserver.example.com')
client = MQTT::Client.connect('mqtts://user:pass@myserver.example.com')
client = MQTT::Client.connect('myserver.example.com')
client = MQTT::Client.connect('myserver.example.com', 18830)
client = MQTT::Client.connect(host: 'myserver.example.com', port: 1883 ... )
~~~

TLS/SSL is not enabled by default, to enabled it, pass `ssl: true`:

~~~ ruby
client = MQTT::Client.connect(
  host: 'test.mosquitto.org',
  port: 8883,
  ssl: true
)
~~~

Alternatively you can create a new Client object and then configure it by setting attributes. This example shows setting up client certificate based authentication:

~~~ ruby
client = MQTT::Client.new
client.host = 'myserver.example.com'
client.ssl = true
client.cert_file = path_to('client.pem')
client.key_file  = path_to('client.key')
client.ca_file   = path_to('root-ca.pem')
client.connect
~~~

The connection can either be made without the use of a block:

~~~ ruby
client = MQTT::Client.connect('test.mosquitto.org')
# perform operations
client.disconnect
~~~

Or, if using a block, with an implicit disconnection at the end of the block.

~~~ ruby
MQTT::Client.connect('test.mosquitto.org') do |client|
  # perform operations
end
~~~

For more information, see the list of attributes for the [MQTT::Client] class and the [MQTT::Client.connect] method.


### Publishing ###

To send a message to a topic, use the ```publish``` method:

~~~ ruby
client.publish(topic, payload, retain: false, qos: 0)
~~~

The method will return once the message has been sent to the MQTT server for QoS 0,
or once an Ack has been received from the server for QoS 1.

For more information see the [MQTT::Client#publish] method.


### Subscribing ###

You can send a subscription request to the MQTT server using the subscribe method. One or more [Topic Filters] may be passed in:

~~~ ruby
client.subscribe( 'topic1' )
client.subscribe( 'topic1', 'topic2' )
client.subscribe( 'foo/#' )
~~~

For more information see the [MQTT::Client#subscribe] method.


### Receiving Messages ###

To receive a message, use the get method. This method will block until a message is available. You can access details
about the packet such as if it was retained, the topic it was sent to, and the payload.

~~~ ruby
packet = client.get
packet.retained?
packet.topic
packet.payload
~~~

Alternatively, you can give the get method a block, which will be called for every message received and loop forever:

~~~ ruby
client.get do |packet|
  # Block is executed for every message received
end
~~~

For more information see the [MQTT::Client#get] method.


### Parsing and serialising of packets ###

The parsing and serialising of MQTT and MQTT-SN packets is a separate lower-level API.
You can use it to build your own clients and servers, without using any of the rest of the
code in this gem.

~~~ ruby
# Parse a string containing a binary packet into an object
packet_obj = MQTT::Packet.parse(binary_packet)
    
# Write a PUBACK packet to an IO handle
ios << MQTT::Packet::Puback(id: 20)
    
# Write an MQTT-SN Publish packet with QoS -1 to a UDP socket
socket = UDPSocket.new
socket.connect('localhost', MQTT::SN::DEFAULT_PORT)
socket << MQTT::SN::Packet::Publish.new(
  topic_id: 'TT',
  topic_id_type: :short,
  data: "The time is: #{Time.now}",
  qos: -1
)
socket.close
~~~

Limitations
-----------

 * QoS 2 is not currently supported by client
 * Pending publishes are only persisted as long as a reconnect occurs within
   the configured timeout

Resources
---------

* API Documentation: http://rubydoc.info/gems/mqtt
* Protocol Specification v3.1.1: http://docs.oasis-open.org/mqtt/mqtt/v3.1.1/mqtt-v3.1.1.html
* Protocol Specification v3.1: http://public.dhe.ibm.com/software/dw/webservices/ws-mqtt/mqtt-v3r1.html
* MQTT-SN Protocol Specification v1.2: http://mqtt.org/new/wp-content/uploads/2009/06/MQTT-SN_spec_v1.2.pdf
* MQTT Homepage: http://www.mqtt.org/
* GitHub Project: http://github.com/njh/ruby-mqtt


License
-------

The mqtt ruby gem is licensed under the terms of the MIT license.
See the file LICENSE for details.


[MQTT]:           http://www.mqtt.org/
[MQTT-SN]:        http://mqtt.org/2013/12/mqtt-for-sensor-networks-mqtt-sn
[Rubygems]:       http://rubygems.org/
[Bundler]:        http://bundler.io/
[MQTT URI]:       https://github.com/mqtt/mqtt.github.io/wiki/URI-Scheme
[Topic Filters]:  http://docs.oasis-open.org/mqtt/mqtt/v3.1.1/mqtt-v3.1.1.html#_Toc388534397

[MQTT::Client]:           http://rubydoc.info/gems/mqtt-ccutrer/MQTT/Client#instance_attr_details
[MQTT::Client.connect]:   http://rubydoc.info/gems/mqtt-ccutrer/MQTT/Client.connect
[MQTT::Client#publish]:   http://rubydoc.info/gems/mqtt-ccutrer/MQTT/Client:publish
[MQTT::Client#subscribe]: http://rubydoc.info/gems/mqtt-ccutrer/MQTT/Client:subscribe
[MQTT::Client#get]:       http://rubydoc.info/gems/mqtt-ccutrer/MQTT/Client:get

Commit message:

Added support for timeout when opening a TCPSocket
See https://github.com/njh/ruby-mqtt/pull/163

README.md, after:

ruby-mqtt
=========

Pure Ruby gem that implements the [MQTT] protocol, a lightweight protocol for publish/subscribe messaging.

Also includes a class for parsing and generating [MQTT-SN] packets.


Table of Contents
-----------------
* [Installation](#installation)
* [Quick Start](#quick-start)
* [Library Overview](#library-overview)
* [Resources](#resources)
* [License](#license)
* [Contact](#contact)


Installation
------------

You may get the latest stable version from [Rubygems]:

    $ gem install mqtt-ccutrer

Quick Start
-----------

~~~ ruby
require 'mqtt'

# Publish example
MQTT::Client.connect('test.mosquitto.org') do |c|
  c.publish('test', 'message')
end

# Subscribe example
MQTT::Client.connect('test.mosquitto.org') do |c|
  # If you pass a block to the get method, then it will loop
  c.subscribe('test')
  c.get do |packet|
    puts "#{packet.topic}: #{packet.payload}"
  end
end
~~~


Library Overview
----------------

### Connecting ###

A new client connection can be created by passing either a [MQTT URI], a host and port or by passing a hash of attributes.

~~~ ruby
client = MQTT::Client.connect('mqtt://myserver.example.com')
client = MQTT::Client.connect('mqtts://user:pass@myserver.example.com')
client = MQTT::Client.connect('myserver.example.com')
client = MQTT::Client.connect('myserver.example.com', 18830)
client = MQTT::Client.connect(host: 'myserver.example.com', port: 1883 ... )
~~~

TLS/SSL is not enabled by default, to enabled it, pass `ssl: true`:

~~~ ruby
client = MQTT::Client.connect(
  host: 'test.mosquitto.org',
  port: 8883,
  ssl: true
)
~~~

Alternatively you can create a new Client object and then configure it by setting attributes. This example shows setting up client certificate based authentication:

~~~ ruby
client = MQTT::Client.new
client.host = 'myserver.example.com'
client.ssl = true
client.cert_file = path_to('client.pem')
client.key_file  = path_to('client.key')
client.ca_file   = path_to('root-ca.pem')
client.connect
~~~

The default timeout when opening a TCP Socket is 30 seconds. To specify it explicitly, use 'connect_timeout =>':

~~~ ruby
client = MQTT::Client.connect(
  :host => 'myserver.example.com',
  :connect_timeout => 15
)
~~~

The connection can either be made without the use of a block:

~~~ ruby
client = MQTT::Client.connect('test.mosquitto.org')
# perform operations
client.disconnect
~~~

Or, if using a block, with an implicit disconnection at the end of the block.

~~~ ruby
MQTT::Client.connect('test.mosquitto.org') do |client|
  # perform operations
end
~~~

For more information, see the list of attributes for the [MQTT::Client] class and the [MQTT::Client.connect] method.


### Publishing ###

To send a message to a topic, use the ```publish``` method:

~~~ ruby
client.publish(topic, payload, retain: false, qos: 0)
~~~

The method will return once the message has been sent to the MQTT server for QoS 0,
or once an Ack has been received from the server for QoS 1.

For more information see the [MQTT::Client#publish] method.


### Subscribing ###

You can send a subscription request to the MQTT server using the subscribe method. One or more [Topic Filters] may be passed in:

~~~ ruby
client.subscribe( 'topic1' )
client.subscribe( 'topic1', 'topic2' )
client.subscribe( 'foo/#' )
~~~

For more information see the [MQTT::Client#subscribe] method.


### Receiving Messages ###

To receive a message, use the get method. This method will block until a message is available. You can access details
about the packet such as if it was retained, the topic it was sent to, and the payload.

~~~ ruby
packet = client.get
packet.retained?
packet.topic
packet.payload
~~~

Alternatively, you can give the get method a block, which will be called for every message received and loop forever:

~~~ ruby
client.get do |packet|
  # Block is executed for every message received
end
~~~

For more information see the [MQTT::Client#get] method.


### Parsing and serialising of packets ###

The parsing and serialising of MQTT and MQTT-SN packets is a separate lower-level API.
You can use it to build your own clients and servers, without using any of the rest of the
code in this gem.

~~~ ruby
# Parse a string containing a binary packet into an object
packet_obj = MQTT::Packet.parse(binary_packet)
    
# Write a PUBACK packet to an IO handle
ios << MQTT::Packet::Puback(id: 20)
    
# Write an MQTT-SN Publish packet with QoS -1 to a UDP socket
socket = UDPSocket.new
socket.connect('localhost', MQTT::SN::DEFAULT_PORT)
socket << MQTT::SN::Packet::Publish.new(
  topic_id: 'TT',
  topic_id_type: :short,
  data: "The time is: #{Time.now}",
  qos: -1
)
socket.close
~~~

Limitations
-----------

 * QoS 2 is not currently supported by client
 * Pending publishes are only persisted as long as a reconnect occurs within
   the configured timeout

Resources
---------

* API Documentation: http://rubydoc.info/gems/mqtt
* Protocol Specification v3.1.1: http://docs.oasis-open.org/mqtt/mqtt/v3.1.1/mqtt-v3.1.1.html
* Protocol Specification v3.1: http://public.dhe.ibm.com/software/dw/webservices/ws-mqtt/mqtt-v3r1.html
* MQTT-SN Protocol Specification v1.2: http://mqtt.org/new/wp-content/uploads/2009/06/MQTT-SN_spec_v1.2.pdf
* MQTT Homepage: http://www.mqtt.org/
* GitHub Project: http://github.com/njh/ruby-mqtt


License
-------

The mqtt ruby gem is licensed under the terms of the MIT license.
See the file LICENSE for details.


[MQTT]:           http://www.mqtt.org/
[MQTT-SN]:        http://mqtt.org/2013/12/mqtt-for-sensor-networks-mqtt-sn
[Rubygems]:       http://rubygems.org/
[Bundler]:        http://bundler.io/
[MQTT URI]:       https://github.com/mqtt/mqtt.github.io/wiki/URI-Scheme
[Topic Filters]:  http://docs.oasis-open.org/mqtt/mqtt/v3.1.1/mqtt-v3.1.1.html#_Toc388534397

[MQTT::Client]:           http://rubydoc.info/gems/mqtt-ccutrer/MQTT/Client#instance_attr_details
[MQTT::Client.connect]:   http://rubydoc.info/gems/mqtt-ccutrer/MQTT/Client.connect
[MQTT::Client#publish]:   http://rubydoc.info/gems/mqtt-ccutrer/MQTT/Client:publish
[MQTT::Client#subscribe]: http://rubydoc.info/gems/mqtt-ccutrer/MQTT/Client:subscribe
[MQTT::Client#get]:       http://rubydoc.info/gems/mqtt-ccutrer/MQTT/Client:get
